---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: >-
  I struggle a lot with controlling my impulses. And I often

  end up doing things that seem really stupid or unnecessary when I look back on

  it. I buy stuff I don’t need, eat tons of unhealthy food, waste hours browsing

  news sites, YouTube, or other sites filled with brainless entertainment. And I

  very often end up avoiding the things I had planned to do if I feel that they

  are too hard. And I have been trying hard lately to understand why I behave
  this

  way. I have even gone to see a shrink a few time, in order to find some logic

  to what is going on in my head.
datePublished: '2016-04-09T18:42:53.718Z'
dateModified: '2016-04-09T18:36:56.181Z'
title: Impulse and fear
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-09-cd303f18-3953-4ec2-a34b-61825d19da88.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: cd303f18-3953-4ec2-a34b-61825d19da88/index.html
_type: Article

---
I struggle a lot with controlling my impulses. And I often
end up doing things that seem really stupid or unnecessary when I look back on
it. I buy stuff I don't need, eat tons of unhealthy food, waste hours browsing
news sites, YouTube, or other sites filled with brainless entertainment. And I
very often end up avoiding the things I had planned to do if I feel that they
are too hard. And I have been trying hard lately to understand why I behave this
way. I have even gone to see a shrink a few time, in order to find some logic
to what is going on in my head.

And one thing I have realized is that fear seems to have
something to do with it. Whenever I feel an urge to get or do something, it
feels as if life without that, whatever it is, is almost unbearable. It's a
kind of pain that I don't want to experience. And I fear that pain. So in
response to the pain I feel at the prospect of not having something, I panic. I
rush to get or buy this random thing or activity. And I usually don't really
stop to think about the consequences of my actions until I'm done. 

What I have realized, is that it is the fear, more than the
actual pain caused by the urge, that makes me do this thing despite my better
judgment. Because the fear makes me panic. And when I panic, I am pushed into a
kind of reaction mode, where all of my instincts are telling me that I'm in
danger and that I need to act. And in the process all logical thoughts that
doesn't contribute towards me acting fast, are pushed back towards the back of
my mind. All of this makes resisting urges very hard. Because it's not really
about resisting the urge anymore. It's about standing up to my instincts that
are telling me to run away from the danger, the danger of not getting the
whatever it is. 

Fear is an awful feeling to deal with. It makes doing
anything other than "running away", extremely hard. And so when I get into one
of this fear state, and I'm trying to resist my instincts telling me to
"runaway", it's very hard to do anything else than resisting that fear. It's a
kind of painful state in which I can't seem to concentrate properly. And very
often I will just cave into my urges just to get out of this state.

The problem however is that the more often I do it the worse
it gets. It weakens my courage and ability to resist the fear. And it makes me
panic even faster than before. Giving into the fear, tends to often start a
kind of negative spiral that it's very hard to get out of. The world is filled
with "painful" choices that we have to make. And when I start to avoid them all
because I'm panicking, then things can get really bad. Which is why I need to
find some way of dealing with this fear. 

I need to stand up to the choices I make and stop second
guessing myself each time things start to feel a bit difficult. I need to learn
how to calm myself down in order to make the fear go away. Since relying on raw
willpower clearly is getting me nowhere when it comes to this. I need to give
the fear the time it needs to pass, instead of trying to continue staying
active which leads me to do stupid things. I need to just do nothing, wait
until I have calmed down, and then continue to do the things I had planned. It
sounds easy, but trust me, to someone like me who is not used to ever taking a
break from doing something, this is actually pretty hard. But I must try. I
need to recognize each time I feel the urge to do something unplanned, then
just stop for a while, calm myself down and find a way to make me see that the
urge isn't as important as I think it might be right her and now. Yes, that is
what I will try.